Your Highness?
Charge!
Save yourselves!
Pull back!
For the love of God,
save yourselves!
Retreat. Retreat!
Retreat!
Yeah! Yeah, they run!
Yes!
Yes! Ah, we won!
What are you so happy about?
It is not over yet!
Open the gate!
Hurry!
We are defeated.
They'll be here soon.
Father, Sire, wife,
we have no choice.
We have to leave here at once
and find safety elsewhere.
Go! Now.
- I will pack a few things.
- Come on, boys.
Father, did you
not hear me?
We have to go. Now!
I cannot leave this place.
Father, you are the King!
I cannot allow the king
of our country
to fall into the hands
of our enemies!
I'm not talking
about you as a man,
but as a king.
I will renounce the crown
in your favor.
We'll have a short ceremony.
Quick.
Go fetch Bishop Edmund.
I can't
begin to understand
your thinking
but I can't just
leave you here to die.
My son, I ask you to
trust me this one last time.
This is God's will.
It's also mine.
Now, go fetch Bishop Edmund.
Do you, Ecbert,
anointed King of Wessex,
Mercia, East Anglia,
Cornwall, Bretwalda,
King of Kings,
in the sight of God Almighty,
renounce all your thrones
and kingdoms
in favor of your son and heir,
Prince Aethelwulf?
I do, so help me, God.
So, let me remove from you
the sacred emblems
and signs of your kingship.
I give this holy
scepter into your hands,
Prince Aethelwulf.
And with this ancient crown,
I do make thee King
over all those
places and kingdoms
once ruled by your father,
but now by you instead.
In the name of the Father,
Son,
and Holy Ghost,
I crown you King Aethelwulf.
May God save and protect you,
all the days of your life.
Sire.
Now, please hurry!
No more space!
Wait!
We're leaving!
I want you to go,
get them in the cart. Go! Go!
Formation!
Sire! Sire!
Father!
My son. I know I have
placed my kingdom
in the safest hands.
Now, you go now,
you save yourself
and your family,
but only that you can
re-gather your strength,
and take back what is yours.
It's all my plan.
God help me!
Boys,
straight into the carriage!
- My sweet Judith!
- Come on! Hurry!
Hail and farewell.
I think I know
what it is that is
left for me to do.
I cannot run away from it now.
Thank you for loving me.
Love is everything.
All shall be well.
Now... Now, you...
You have a destiny, Alfred,
that you cannot escape.
So you better get used to it.
In the meantime,
listen and learn.
Listen to the highest
and the lowest.
Learn from the prince,
and from the shepherd.
And, remember,
the greatest Christian virtue,
Alfred, is humility.
Thank you, Grandfather.
I love you.
And I you.
Now, you take care
of your brother
for he is special, too.
And your mother.
We have to go.
Yes, yes! Go, go! Go, go!
And farewell, Bishop Edmund,
my dear vintner.
May God bless you
and keep you.
I am going nowhere, Sire.
I am staying here with you.
Thank you.
This is a sacred site.
Now, how should I, a Bishop
of God's holy church,
abandon Him now?
Besides, the cellars
are still stocked
with some of the finest
wines in Christendom!
Mmm.
Am I supposed to
leave them to the pagans
who don't know
the difference between
one grape and another?
Let's go!
May God be with you all!
Now and forever!
Let's move! Go!
We pray to the gods
for the success
of the great army.
I remember when
Ragnar left these shores
in a single boat.
He had a dream.
He wanted to
find distant lands.
He wanted our people
to settle and
thrive in those lands.
Perhaps now,
his sons can
realize his dreams.
I hope so.
And I pray to the gods
to make it so.
It seems the gods
are not always on our side.
You are the new generation.
You don't understand
the gods as we do.
The gods are not always
meant to be understood.
That is part of their power.
What you have to understand
is that our gods
are fighting a life-and-death
struggle with this
new Christian God.
That is really
what my son is doing.
Nothing else is so important,
for if we lose
our ancient gods,
what is the point of living?
Mmm.
Charge!
Go!
Move!
Be careful.
It could be a trap.
You! Follow us!
It's empty.
They've gone!
Burn it!
Break it open!
Break it all!
Rip it!
Let me have it! It is mine!
Rubbish! Nothing!
Oh, it's valuable!
Stop!
This is King Ecbert!
I order you to spare him.
Tanaruz,
don't be afraid. Trust me.
You must trust me.
I love you.
Helga!
Helga! Helga!
No, no!
I am happy now.
I get to see my Angrboda.
Helga! Helga!
You are not like anybody else.
Be yourself, Floki.
This world,
it is too small for you.
No, Helga!
When Balder,
Odin's beloved son, died,
not only did people weep.
But fire wept.
And iron and all
the other metals wept.
The stones wept. Earth wept.
Farewell, voyager.
Farewell, my heart, farewell.
For now.
We have to decide
what to do
with King Ecbert!
I don't understand.
What is there to discuss?
We Blood Eagle him.
Ecbert is as guilty as Aelle
so we should do
the same thing to him.
I have told you
this too many times,
brothers. I was here!
I saw Ecbert hand Father
over to King Aelle.
We all understand
those feelings, Ivar.
No one is denying
what you are saying.
But sometimes...
Sometimes,
we have to consider things
beyond our feelings.
And think what is
best for our people!
I know what our
people want, Bjorn.
And they want what I want.
We have to consider
our position of strength.
And use that to our
ultimate advantage!
You always like
to complicate
things, Bjorn.
You think it
makes you look clever.
And what if we
kill Ecbert, Ivar?
What then?
Well, then he's dead, Ubbe!
We are in the middle
of an enemy kingdom.
How long will it be
before the Saxon forces
gather up another army
and drive us away?
Exactly!
So we Blood Eagle Ecbert
and then we move on.
We raid this entire land,
so that they
never have a chance
to assemble
another army again.
Why would we even
want to stay here?
It is what our father wanted.
He didn't just
want to win battles.
He wanted land here.
He wanted
to make settlements,
so our people could live
and they could work.
Mmm. And we all
know what happened.
Yes, but in those days,
he did not hold
a king to ransom,
nor did he have a great army.
We do.
What about you, Sigurd?
You've been very quiet so far.
I'm sure you have an opinion.
I agree with you, Ivar.
Excuse me?
We should Blood Eagle him.
Finally, thank you.
But I'm not sure.
I'm not sure
what they're saying.
What I am saying
is that we should do
what our father always wanted.
Yes?
I'd like to speak.
Well, I understand
most of what you say,
and I speak a little
of your language now.
I loved your father.
He was my friend.
And I know that,
more than anything,
he wanted to build
a farming community here.
And you
killed all the settlers.
Yes. It's true. I did.
But now
the tables have turned.
We can make a new deal.
What are you proposing?
Well, as you say,
it's only a matter of time
before you are
driven away from here.
Without any legal
right to English lands,
you have no hope of staying.
Well, I am King of Kings.
And I can give you
that legal right.
I will give you legal claim
to the Kingdom of East Anglia.
It's a large kingdom.
Because I am king,
no one can
question that claim.
And it seems that
you have enough men
to enforce it until it holds.
That's my offer.
You should consider it.
What do you want in return?
I'll only tell you that
once you agree to my proposal.
Not that I need to ask,
but what is your opinion?
About whether to
accept the gift of land
from King Ecbert?
Yes.
Well, since you do ask me,
my opinion is that we
should take the land.
But I have one condition...
That Ecbert dies.
And that I Blood Eagle him.
Otherwise, there is no deal.
You wouldn't be
able to stand up
long enough to
Blood Eagle him.
I imagine me sitting.
I accept your offer of land.
But for what you
did to my father,
you must die.
Then I'll tell you
what it is I want.
All I want is to
choose the manner
of my own death.
I agree.
Bjorn Ironside,
son of Ragnar,
I, King Ecbert,
give you the right
to settle the lands
of East Anglia.
And I pray you succeed.
And now,
I have a final
journey to take.
I was sorry to hear
of Helga's death.
We knew each
other a long time.
Since I was a boy.
I, too, am dead, Bjorn.
A part of me died
with my daughter Angrboda,
a second part with Ragnar,
and the last part
of what was Floki died
with my sweet, sad Helga.
What I am now is nothing.
And all this nothing
I give to the gods,
to do with as they please.
And I shall be an empty ship
with no rudder,
set upon their endless sea,
and where they take me,
I shall go.
Take care, Bjorn.
Thank you.
All my
future lies with Ragnar.
The only person
you truly care
for is yourself.
I give myself freely to you.
Thank you,
Grandfather. I love you.
I crown you King of Wessex
and Mercia.
They will avenge me.
Don't be afraid.
Friends,
no one will ever
be able to doubt
what we have achieved!
An army of all our peoples,
and we have defeated not one,
but two English kingdoms!
For us, the sons of Ragnar,
our first duty was to avenge
our father's death,
and that we have done.
But also,
we have achieved
my father's dream.
We have the legal
right to the land,
and to farm here!
It is up to all of you
to use this opportunity
to send over new settlers
and young families!
Unfortunately,
I will not be here to see
this new
settlement grow and thrive.
My fate will
take me elsewhere.
I always knew I had to return
to explore
the Mediterranean Sea.
And now I feel free
to follow my destiny.
But my brothers
will be here for you.
Skol!
I will be here,
but not to
settle down and plow!
Who wants to be a farmer now?
Hmm?
We have a great army
and we should use it!
There are many other places
that I want to
attack and raid!
And those of you
who feel like I do,
you should come with me.
And those of you who don't,
ask yourself,
who can stand in our way now?
You cannot lead the army,
Ivar. Hmm?
I don't want to, Ubbe.
All I'm saying is that
for those who are
still brave enough
to raid and find adventure,
then I will lead them.
You can put on an apron
and settle down
if you want to.
It will
take a great man, Ivar,
to stake a claim here,
defend it.
Ah... That does not
sound like yourself,
dear brother.
The Hvitserk I know,
he loves to raid.
He's a real Viking.
What you just said,
that is not the Viking way.
So...
Who among you will follow me?
Who will follow
me into battle,
for the love of fame
and for the love of Odin,
our All-Father?
Yeah!
Odin!
Don't do this, Ivar.
We are all the sons of Ragnar.
We have to stick together.
Frankly, dear Sigurd,
I don't care what you say.
The truth is,
I wouldn't even
piss down your throat
even if your lungs
were on fire.
Well, maybe that's because
you're not really a man.
Are you, Boneless?
So, who is
going to stay and farm?
I would like to stay.
But I have other plans.
Skol.
Skol!
As for me,
I want to go with Bjorn.
I want to see
the Mediterranean.
Then it seems
the only thing
that really kept the sons
of Ragnar together
was the death
of their father.
Poor Bjorn! It is you
who doesn't want
to keep the army together.
It is you who wants to
go away to sunny places.
Everyone else can follow me.
I do not want to
follow you, Ivar.
You are crazy.
You have the mind of a child!
And all you do is
play music, Sigurd!
I'm just as much
a son of Ragnar as you are.
I'm not so sure.
As far as I remember,
Ragnar didn't play the oud.
And he certainly
didn't offer his arse
to other men.
You make me laugh!
Just like you
do when you crawl
around like a baby.
Shut your mouth!
Enough!
This has nothing
to do with you!
What's the matter, Ivar?
You can't take it?
Ivar, do not listen to him.
No, I guess it must
be hard for you now
that your mommy's dead,
knowing she's the only one
who ever really loved you.
Ivar. Ivar!
No.
No! No!
- Amen.
Thank you,
Bishop Heahmund.
My husband has gone
to a better place.
I know that.
The Lord will find
ways to console you.